feat: first iteration of glossary (#31)
MADICES/MADICES-2022: glossary.md

You can find more definitions of terms uses in the context of semantic techniques in [this  glossay by Charles Hoyt](https://cthoyt.com/2021/10/07/biopragmatics-glossary.html).

## Relational vs document databases

[Relational databases](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relational_database) (e.g., Oracle, PostgreSQL) store table in tables, comparable to spreadsheets. The word relational refers to the fact that the rows within a table are related according to some concept such as "employees" or "chemicals".

[Document databases](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Document-oriented_database) (e.g., Mongo), in contrast, store all information for a given object in a single document, and every stored document can be different from every other. Documents can be thought of as objects in programming.

## Semantic Web

The [semantic web](https://www.w3.org/standards/semanticweb/) is an extension of the world wide web with metadata that makes data machine-interpretable such that agents can perform themselves actions using data. A key part is [linked data](https://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/LinkedData.html) that enables others to find, and use, related data. The principles of linked data are:

> 1. Use URIs as names for things
> 
> 2. Use HTTP URIs so that people can look up those names.
> 
> 2. When someone looks up a URI, provide useful information, using the standards (RDF*, SPARQL)
> 
> 3. Include links to other URIs, so that they can discover more things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use URIs as names for things

2. Use HTTP URIs so that people can look up those names.

3. When someone looks up a URI, provide useful information, using the standards (RDF*, SPARQL)

4. Include links to other URIs, so that they can discover more things.
```

it is [the fifth star of the five star open-data principles](https://5stardata.info/en/).

> ## URI, URL, IRI
> 
> A [URI](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986) is sequence of a subset of ASCII characters that consists of a string that defines a scheme (e.g., `https`) followed by a `:` and a sequence specifying the authority (e.g.  `example.org`), the path (e.g., `/some/page`) and then optionally a query (e.g., `?get=name`) and optionally a gragment (`#results`).
> A URL is a special form of URI that is a locator, i.e. it can be resolved to some resource. An IRI is a generalization of URI to unicode glyps.
> 
> A more detailed explanation on the difference between URLs, URIs, and IRIs can be found [here](https://fusion.cs.uni-jena.de/fusion/2016/11/18/iri-uri-url-urn-and-their-differences/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## URI, URL, IRI, GUPRI

A [URI](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3986) is sequence of a subset of ASCII characters that consists of a string that defines a scheme (e.g., `https`) followed by a `:` and a sequence specifying the authority (e.g.  `example.org`), the path (e.g., `/some/page`) and then optionally a query (e.g., `?get=name`) and optionally fragment (`#results`).
A URL is a special form of URI that is a locator, i.e. it can be resolved to some resource. An IRI is a generalization of URI to unicode glyps.

A more detailed explanation on the difference between URLs, URIs, and IRIs can be found [here](https://fusion.cs.uni-jena.de/fusion/2016/11/18/iri-uri-url-urn-and-their-differences/).

GUPRIs (globally unique persistent resolvable identifires) are simply URIs with the additional constraints that they must be globally unique and persistent, typically provided via a centralized registration service like the Digital Object Identifier Foundation ([DOI](https://doi.org) or [Handle](https://www.dona.net/handle-system). 
These identifiers are a technical solution fulfilling F1 of the [FAIR Principles](https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/).
```
